---
title: Kit Programming Language and Thoughts on Being an Expert
author: Bobby Burden III
date: '2018-09-19'
categories:
  - programming
tags:
  - programming
  - open_source
---

My first real exposure to programming was when I read a book called "Learning
Perl" by Randal L. Schwartz. When I finished reading that book I realized that
you can actually make a living by playing with a computer all day. I was blown
away.

A decade later, I'm reminiscing about Perl and decide to look into Mr. Schwartz
a bit. I realized that he really built a career around being an expert in Perl.
That's really interesting to me -- he's basically paid to be the best Perl
programmer he possibly can be.

Yesterday I stumbled upon the [Kit Programming
Language](https://www.kitlang.org/), a language that "compiles" to C. Not a
completely new concept, but an interesting one that seems to do it the _right
way_ in my opinion. The syntax is very C-like, but different enough to
accomodate the new features that they have added. They've also implemented the
compiler in Haskell, an interesting choice.

This has me thinking: What are the odds that Kit becomes a viable language? Will
people try to become the Randal Schwartzes of Kit? There's definitely an
interesting career opportunity for someone here if they become the de-facto
expert on Kit. They could write books, blog, be a consultant. But also, they
could devote time and effort just for the language to fizzle out and never
really take off.

This blog post is basically me saying "I wish I had the guts to take that kind
of risk". :)